we're trying to bring
elephants into the temple of art maybe
in a museum of modern art will give us a
show
almost 100 elephants have now started
new careers in
art because they've been trained to do
it
some have dismissed their work as a mere
circus act
but melamed has no problem accepting
them as true
artists it is as artificial for a human
to paint as
for an elephant someone gave me this
brush someone gave me the paint
the same way as i gave a brush and i
gave a paint
to an elephant now five years later
hong is producing realistic paintings of
other elephants
her talent for art has shown that
melamed's crazy plan was perhaps not so
crazy after all
they're unpredictable you know i was
joking the very beginning oh we'll see
they will paint realistically people
were making fun of us
of course and here we are they are
word of hong's extraordinary abilities
soon spread
and vanda harvey a london-based painter
with an international reputation
is curious she wants to work with hull
to see if the elephant can produce a
collection of paintings
that will stand the scrutiny of a london
art gallery
the fact that hong can actually draw
other elephants in itself is amazing
because that takes a certain amount of
dexterity and the fact that it is an
elephant doing that is
is quite phenomenal but what i'm
interested in finding out
if there's a sort of more poetic spirit
there so i'm i'm
probably going to liberate her from her
day job of uh
of painting other elephants
so vanda has traveled halfway around the
world to the mataman elephant camp in
northern thailand
vanda gets her first glimpse of hong
doing her day job
entertaining the tourists
since logging was banned tourism has
become the only way that elephants can
earn their keep
the climax of the show is hong's
painting
it's a chance for vanda to see hong's
work first hand
vanda teaches fine art to university
students
she thinks her latest pupil shows
promise
actually if you look at the kind of
confident marks that hong's making she's
somewhat some elephant that's quite
happy
and you know one only has to look at the
best matisse drawings to understand that
a weighted line will be heavier on one
side of a form
to give you a sense of contour and
volume so
i think hong looks promising
perhaps the most astonishing thing about
hong and all the painting elephants
is the fact that they can do it at all
what makes this possible
is their trunk the elephant's trunk has
more than 40
000 muscles compared to just 840
in the entire human body it's
phenomenally strong
but at the same time incredibly precise
they also have the equivalent of an
opposing thumb
so they can easily pick things up and
use tools
it's this that gives hong her ability to
paint
you